Q1: The correct Dockerfile instruction order for a Node.js app is:
A) COPY . . → FROM node → RUN npm install
B) RUN npm install → FROM node → COPY . .
C) FROM node:20-alpine → COPY package*.json . → RUN npm ci → COPY . .
D) FROM node → COPY . . → RUN npm install (works but poor caching)
Correct: C

Q2: DIAGNOSTIC: Your Docker build takes 5 minutes every time, even when only app code changed. Why?
A) COPY . . before RUN npm install — every code change invalidates the install layer. Copy package.json first.
B) Docker is inherently slow
C) The image is too large
D) You need a faster machine
Correct: A

Q3: Each Dockerfile instruction creates:
A) A new container
B) A new file
C) A new layer — layers are cached and reused when unchanged
D) A new network
Correct: C

Q4: Multi-stage builds help because they:
A) Run tests automatically
B) Require fewer Dockerfile lines
C) Are faster to build
D) Build in one stage (with dev tools) and copy only the output to a minimal final stage — smaller images
Correct: D

Q5: SCENARIO: Your image is 1.2GB, teammate's is 150MB for the same app. What's different?
A) They have less code
B) They compressed the image
C) They used alpine base, multi-stage build, and .dockerignore excluding node_modules and .git
D) Their app has fewer features
Correct: C

Q6: docker build -t myapp:v1.0 . — what does the . mean?
A) The current directory is the build context — Docker sends these files to the build engine
B) Build everything recursively
C) Use the default Dockerfile only
D) It's optional punctuation
Correct: A

Q7: TRADEOFF: FROM node:20 (900MB) vs FROM node:20-alpine (150MB). Alpine risk:
A) Doesn't support Node.js
B) Is slower than the full image
C) May lack system libraries (glibc vs musl) that native modules need — test before switching
D) Costs more on registries
Correct: C

Q8: .dockerignore matters because:
A) It's a Docker requirement
B) It replaces .gitignore
C) It makes images smaller automatically
D) It prevents large/sensitive files (node_modules, .git, .env) from entering the build context — faster builds, safer images
Correct: D
