Q1: git stash does what?
A) Permanently deletes uncommitted changes
B) Commits all changes with a default message
C) Temporarily saves uncommitted changes and cleans the working directory — recoverable with stash pop
D) Creates a new branch
Correct: C

Q2: TRADEOFF: When should you NOT rebase?
A) On your local feature branch (always safe)
B) On commits that have been pushed and shared — rebase rewrites history and will cause conflicts for others
C) Rebasing is always safe
D) Before merging
Correct: B

Q3: git cherry-pick abc123 does what?
A) Deletes commit abc123
B) Merges two branches
C) Copies a single specific commit from one branch and applies it to your current branch
D) Creates a new branch at abc123
Correct: C

Q4: SCENARIO: A test used to pass but now fails. You have 500 commits since then. What tool finds the exact commit that broke it?
A) git log and check each commit manually
B) git diff HEAD~500
D) git bisect — binary search through commits, testing each one, finds the bad commit in ~9 steps
C) git reset to the beginning
Correct: D

Q5: DIAGNOSTIC: You ran git reset --hard HEAD~3 and lost 3 commits. Are they gone forever?
A) Yes — reset --hard is permanent
B) No — git reflog shows every HEAD position. Find the lost commit SHA and git cherry-pick or git reset --hard to recover it
C) Only if you pushed them
D) You need to re-clone
Correct: B

Q6: git commit --amend does what?
A) Creates a new branch
B) Undoes the last commit entirely
C) Replaces the most recent commit with a new one (new message, added files) — changes the commit hash
D) Pushes to the server
Correct: C

Q7: You want to update your feature branch with main's latest changes WITHOUT a merge commit:
A) git merge main (creates a merge commit)
B) git pull main
C) git rebase main — replays your commits on top of main's latest, keeping linear history
D) git reset main
Correct: C

Q8: SCENARIO: A junior developer asks "I messed up my branch badly. Can I just start over from main?" The cleanest approach is:
A) Delete the repo and re-clone
B) git checkout main && git branch -D messy-branch && git switch -c fresh-branch
C) Edit files manually to undo everything
D) Push the mess and hope for the best
Correct: B
