Q1: SCENARIO: You need to undo your last commit but keep the changes staged (ready to recommit with a better message). Which command?
A) git reset --hard HEAD~1 (loses changes entirely!)
B) git revert HEAD
C) git reset --soft HEAD~1 — undoes commit, keeps changes staged
D) git checkout HEAD~1
Correct: C

Q2: DIAGNOSTIC: git push is rejected with "non-fast-forward". This means:
A) Git is broken
B) The remote has commits you don't have locally — pull first, resolve conflicts, then push
C) You need to run git init
D) The branch was deleted
Correct: B

Q3: git revert abc123 differs from git reset because:
A) No difference
B) Revert creates a NEW commit that undoes the changes — safe for shared branches. Reset rewrites history.
C) Revert is faster
D) Reset is safer
Correct: B

Q4: SCENARIO: You accidentally committed to main instead of your feature branch. The commit is only local (not pushed). How do you move it?
A) Delete the repo
B) Copy-paste the files manually
C) git reset --soft HEAD~1 (undo on main), git switch -c feature, git commit (recommit on feature)
D) Push to main anyway
Correct: C

Q5: TRADEOFF: git reset --hard vs --soft vs --mixed. When would you use --hard?
C) Always — it's the safest
B) Never — it's dangerous
A) Only when you want to completely discard commits AND working changes — use with caution, have reflog as backup
D) For moving commits between branches
Correct: A

Q6: When contributing to open source, the proper fork workflow is:
A) Push directly to the original repo
B) Fork → clone YOUR fork → branch → commit → push to YOUR fork → open PR to original
C) Clone the original and push
D) Email the maintainer
Correct: B

Q7: DIAGNOSTIC: You merged a feature branch and now the app is broken. You need to undo the merge on the shared main branch. The safe command is:
A) git reset --hard HEAD~1 (rewrites history — breaks teammates)
B) git merge --abort (only works during an active merge)
C) git revert -m 1 HEAD — creates a new commit that reverses the merge, safe for shared branches
D) Delete the main branch
Correct: C

Q8: SCENARIO: Before a release, you want to squash your 15 small feature commits into 3 clean, logical commits. Which command?
A) git commit --amend (only fixes the last commit)
B) git rebase -i HEAD~15 — interactive rebase lets you squash, reorder, and edit commits
C) git merge --squash
D) git reset HEAD~15
Correct: B
