Q1: csvlook data.csv does:
A) Validates the CSV
B) Pretty-prints the CSV as a formatted table in the terminal
C) Opens the file in an editor
D) Converts to JSON
Correct: B

Q2: SCENARIO: Your CSV has columns name, email, city, revenue. You need only email and revenue. Which tool?
A) awk -F',' '{print $2,$4}'
B) csvcut -c email,revenue data.csv — handles quoted fields correctly, uses column names not numbers
C) cut -d',' -f2,4 (fragile — breaks if columns have commas inside quotes)
D) grep email data.csv
Correct: B

Q3: TRADEOFF: csvkit (Python) vs xsv (Rust) for large files. When does xsv win?
A) xsv is 10-100x faster on large files (millions of rows) because it's compiled Rust. csvkit is more feature-rich for complex operations (csvsql).
B) Always
C) They're the same speed
D) csvkit is always faster
Correct: A

Q4: csvsql --query 'SELECT city, SUM(revenue) FROM data GROUP BY city' does:
A) Only works with SQLite
B) Exports to SQL format
C) Runs a SQL query directly against a CSV file — returns results without importing into a database
D) Creates a SQL database
Correct: C

Q5: DIAGNOSTIC: csvgrep -c status -m "active" returns no rows, but you can see "Active" in the file. What's wrong?
A) csvgrep is broken
B) The match is case-sensitive — "active" != "Active". Use csvgrep -c status -r "(?i)active" for case-insensitive regex matching.
C) CSV files don't support filtering
D) The column name is wrong
Correct: B

Q6: xsv frequency -s city bigdata.csv does:
A) Shows how often the file is accessed
B) Counts unique values in the city column — like GROUP BY COUNT, but handles millions of rows in seconds
C) Measures network frequency
D) Sorts by city
Correct: B

Q7: SCENARIO: You have a 3GB CSV. csvstat hangs because it loads everything into memory. The alternative:
A) Split the file manually
B) Wait longer
C) Convert to JSON first
D) Use xsv stats — streams the file without loading it all into memory, handles GB-scale files
Correct: D

Q8: csvjoin -c customer_id orders.csv customers.csv does:
A) Joins two CSVs on the customer_id column — like SQL JOIN
B) Finds differences between files
C) Appends one file after another
D) Merges all columns
Correct: A
