Q1: The correct way to release version 2.0.0:
A) Push to main and tell the team
B) git tag v2.0.0 (lightweight, no metadata)
C) git tag -a v2.0.0 -m "Release 2.0.0" — annotated tag with metadata, then git push origin --tags
D) Create a branch called v2.0.0
Correct: C

Q2: A CHANGELOG.md should document:
A) Every git commit message
B) User-facing changes organized by version (Added, Changed, Fixed, Removed) so users know what's new
C) Internal code notes
D) Meeting minutes
Correct: B

Q3: git merge --no-ff ensures:
A) A faster merge
B) The branch is deleted
C) A merge commit is always created — preserving the branch history even if a fast-forward was possible
D) Conflicts are skipped
Correct: C

Q4: SCENARIO: Your team lead says "submit a PR." What does this require?
A) Push directly to main
B) A branch with your changes pushed to the remote, then open a pull request in GitHub's UI for review
C) Send an email with your code
D) Run git pull-request
Correct: B

Q5: The MIT License's main characteristic is:
A) No one can use the code
B) Commercial use is prohibited
C) It's highly permissive — anyone can use, modify, and distribute, even commercially, with attribution
D) It requires all changes to be open-sourced
Correct: C

Q6: DIAGNOSTIC: You lost a commit after a bad rebase. Your teammate says "it's gone forever." Are they right?
A) Yes — rebased commits are permanently deleted
B) No — git reflog keeps references to every HEAD position for 30-90 days. Find the SHA and recover it.
C) Only if it was pushed
D) Only the repo owner can recover it
Correct: B

Q7: The professional daily Git workflow is:
A) Code all week, commit on Friday
B) Pull → branch → work → add → commit → push → PR
C) Push everything to main
D) Commit once at end of day
Correct: B

Q8: SCENARIO: Your repository has no README, no LICENSE, no .gitignore, and commit messages like "fix" and "stuff". A hiring manager looks at it. What's their impression?
A) They won't look at the code
B) They'll focus on the code quality only
C) Missing docs, messy history, and no license signal unprofessional habits — the repo itself IS a professional artifact
D) It doesn't matter for hiring
Correct: C
